Geppetto Front End Components
=============================

> -   Overview
> -   Developing Components

Overview
--------

Geppetto is designed as a platform that provides flexibility for
developers to implement their own UI. A components model is intended to
decouple UI elements from the core Geppetto application, allowing heavy
customization of the front end user experience on a per instance basis.

A componentized model allows Geppetto to load components from a remote
repository during the build phase, allowing customization without
forking the project. Components are written as [Bower](http://bower.io)
packages, and loaded as [require.js](http://http://requirejs.org)
modules. Familiarity with Bower and Require.js is recommended for
developing components.

Components live in the /js/components directory. The default contents of
this directory are:

/**js**\
  /**components**\
      /**dev**\
      /**dist**\
      components.js\
      install\_components.py\
      publish\_components.py\
      bower.json

### dev/

The dev/ directory contains components under active development. These
components exist in the main Geppetto frontend repository, and are
loaded by default.

### dist/

The dist/ directory is the location for components installed by bower in
a production environment.

### bower.json

*bower.json* : :

    {
        "name": "org.geppetto.frontend.components",
        "version": "1.0.0",
        "ignore": [
            ".jshintrc",
            "**/*.txt"
        ],
        "dependencies": {
            "simulationcontrols": "https://github.com/mlolson/geppetto-components/raw/master/simulationcontrols.zip",
            "cameracontrols": "https://github.com/mlolson/geppetto-components/raw/master/cameracontrols.zip",
            "help": "https://github.com/mlolson/geppetto-components/raw/master/help.zip",
            "tutorial": "https://github.com/mlolson/geppetto-components/raw/master/tutorial.zip",
            "bootstrap": "https://github.com/mlolson/geppetto-components/raw/master/bootstrap.zip"
        }
    }

The **dependencies** field specifies the components to be installed from
remote repositories. When the command **bower install** is run, the
specified packages will be downloaded and installed into the **/dist**
directory. If Bower sees the components already in the dist folder, it
will not attempt to overwrite them.

### components.js

The components.js file specifies which components to load at runtime via
require.js. For example, here we load three components from the **dev**
directory, in this case using the JSX parser: :

    define(function(require) {
        require('jsx!./dev/simulationcontrols/SimulationControls');
        require('jsx!./dev/cameracontrols/CameraControls');
        require('jsx!./dev/tutorial/IntroModal');
    });

### install\_components.py

The install\_components script runs the command *bower install*, then
generates the **components.js** file to load components from the
**dist/** directory. The install\_components script is meant to be run
on the server, not in a development environment.

### publish\_components.py

Usage: ./publish\_components -v &lt;version&gt;

The publish components script attempts to publish the contents of the
**dev** directory to a local git repository called org.geppetto.bower.
This folder is created at the source root (parrellel to
org.geppetto.frontend). Each component directory is zipped and copied to
org.geppetto.bower/&lt;version&gt;/&lt;component&gt;.zip. The origin of
this repository on github is at
<https://github.com/openworm/org.geppetto.bower>.

Developing Components
---------------------

A component is simply a Bower package. It contains a Bower configuration
file (bower.json), which tells bower how it should be installed.
Information on creating Bower packages can be found
[here](http://bower.io/docs/creating-packages/). A component directory
might look something like this:

  /**cameracontrols**\
      CameraControls.js\
      bower.json

*bower.json:* :

    {
       "name": "cameracontrols",
       "main": "CameraControls",
       "version": "0.0.1",
       "authors": [
         "Matt Olson <mattlolson@gmail.com>"
       ],
       "description": "camera controls for geppetto",
       "moduleType": [
         "amd"
       ],
       "license": "MIT",
       "private": true,
       "ignore": [
         "**/.*",
         "node_modules",
         "bower_components",
         ".",
         "test",
         "tests"
       ]
     }

In order to install Geppetto components correctly, we add one additional
field, **main**. It is not part of the Bower spec. **main** tells
Geppetto which file is the entry point to the package. In this case the
line:

    require('jsx!./dev/cameracontrols/CameraControls');

will be added to **components.js** when the install script is run. The
file **CameraControls.js** will then be loaded when the app is started.

The components can be hosted on any public server. Github is convenient.
Zip the directory and upload it to a location of your choice. When you
are ready to use it, add the entry to the dependencies field of
bower.json and run the install\_components script.
